In this lecture we are going to register new metadata for posts.
Throughout this section, we've created settings for adding an open graph preview for various social
media platforms.
At the moment, the same preview will be generated for all pages.
Ideally, the preview should reflect the contents of the page.
Let me show you an example.
Currently, I'm using a tool for previewing an open graph preview.
I'm going to submit a link to the home page of a random site.
This site has an open graph preview.
The preview contains a generic title image and description.
Lets check out what happens when I view the preview for a specific product.
This time, the preview displays information on the product.
It's common practice to tailor the preview to a specific page.
This helps users on social media sites understand the type of content on a page.
Our plugin should give users the option of modifying the preview for a specific post.
That's what we'll be tackling next in this section.
To get started, we're going to register new metadata for a post.
The open graph settings for a post will be stored as post metadata in your editor.
Open the recipe post type dot php file.
In this file, we are registering the recipe post type.
In addition, we're registering metadata for this post type.
Let's register our metadata from within this function at the bottom of the file.
Run the register post meta function.
The first argument of this function is the name of the post type.
However, we're going to apply this metadata to all posts.
It shouldn't be exclusive to a specific post type.
Luckily we can pass in an empty string.
WordPress will apply the metadata to all post types.
Next, let's set the name of our metadata.
It will be called OG title.
The fields are going to be similar to the fields from our custom page.
Users will be able to modify the title image and description of an open graph preview.
After setting the name, let's configure the settings of this metadata by passing in an array in the
array.
Lets set the single item to true.
This metadata will contain a single value.
We're not going to store the metadata in an array.
Next, let's set the type item to string.
This option will set the data type of our variable.
Afterward set the show in rest option to true.
This option will expose the metadata through the rest API.
Up next, set the sanitized callback option to the sanitized text field function.
This option is new to us.
WordPress can handle updating metadata through the rest API.
If the value is updated through a request, we can run the value through a custom function for sanitization.
Typically we would define a custom function.
However, we're not going to go heavy on the sanitization.
It'll be enough to pass the value onto the sanitized text field function.
The last option is called off callback.
The value for this option will be an anonymous function.
If the metadata is added, modified or deleted through the rest API, we can limit the access to perform
these actions.
The off callback function must return a boolean value inside this function.
Let's return the current user can function.
We're going to check the user's capabilities.
The name of the capability will be called edit posts.
This capability is given to users who can edit a post.
Most rolls have this access.
We're lowering the permissions since most users can create posts but not modify the global settings
of a site.
If the user can edit a post, they're saved to edit the metadata.
Let's create three copies of this function.
The values for the other metadata will be similar.
We just need to modify the name, which is the value in the second argument of the function for the
second copy, set the name to OG description.
For the third copy.
Set the name to OG.
Image.
Lastly, set the forth copy's name to OG override image.
The last option will give the user to override the image of the post by default.
We're going to use the featured image of the post as the image for the preview.
However, users may want to use a different image for social media.
If that's the case, we'll give them the option to override the default behavior.
For this option, let's set the type to Boolean.
Next, let's add an option called default with a value of false.
The default option gives us the opportunity to set the default value for this metadata.
Our metadata has been registered before.
Moving on, let's try testing the metadata by testing the Post's endpoint, Open the Postman application.
In a new tab, create a get request with the following URL.
Udemy Local Slash WP json slash wp slash v two slash posts.
The metadata will be applied to any post type.
And this example, we're going to test the post post type.
Let's send the request.
And the response body, we will receive an array of objects.
Each object represents a single post within any of the objects.
Search for a property called Meta.
WordPress will store the metadata within this property.
If we look closely, our custom metadata has been added to the response.
That's perfect.
We've successfully registered our metadata with all post types.
In the next lecture, let's begin adding fields for modifying this metadata from within the editor.